FLIP for Attachments (#11)
onflow/flips: cadence/2022-09-21-attachments.md

of the attachment that is a reference to the base type. So, for an attachment declared `pub attachment Foo for Bar`, the `super` field of `Foo` would have type `&Bar`.
The fields and methods defined on the attachment itself would be accessible using the `self` value as normal. Note, however, that attachments only have access to the same fields and functions on the `super` field as other code declared in the same place would have; i.e. an attachment defined in the same contract as its original type would have access to `pub` and `access(contract)` fields and methods on `super`, but not `priv` fields or methods, while an attachment defined in a different contract and account to its original type would only be able to reference `pub` fields and methods on the `super` field. 

So, for example, this would be a valid declaration of an attachment:

```
pub resource R {
    pub let x: Int

    init (_ x: Int) {
        self.x = x
    }

    pub fun foo() { ... }
}

pub attachment A for R {
    pub let derivedX: Int 

    init (_ scalar: Int) {

>         self.derivedX = super.x * scalar

Reviewer: This initializer uses `super` - is this legal?

Author: Yea; the initializer is run when the attachment is added, so super is safe to use here.

    }

    pub fun foo() {
        super.foo()
    }
}

```

Any fields that are declared in an attachment must be initialized, just as any fields declared in a composite must be. An attachment
that declares fields must declare an initializer, which is run when the attachment is created. The `init` function on an attachment is run after

> the attachment is attached to the base type, so `super` will have a non-`nil` value and the fields and methods of the base types that are accessible to

Reviewer: The paragraph above states that the type of `super` is `&T`, where `T` is the extended type. Such a type is non-optional so could not be `nil` in any case

the base type will be present on that reference. 

> The same checks on normal initializers apply to attachment initializers; namely that all the fields declared in the attachment must receive a value in the
> extension's initializer. So, the following would be a legal attachment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same checks on normal initializers apply to attachment initializers; namely that all the fields declared in the attachment must be initialized with a value in the extension's initializer. 
So, the following would be a legal attachment:
```

An attachment declared with `pub attachment A for C { ... }` will have a nominal type `A`.

### Adding Attachments to a Type

An attachment can be attached to a base type using the `attach e1 to e2` expression. This expression requires that `e1` have an attachment type, 
and that `e2` have the composite type to which `e1` is intended to be attached. It will fail to typecheck otherwise. 

```cadence
resource R {}
attachment A for R {}
```

The following would be valid ways to attach `A` to `@R`:

```cadence 
let r <- create R()
let r2 <- attach A() to <-r 
...
```

or 

```cadence 
let r2 <- attach A() to <-create R()
```

An attachment can only be created in the same statement in which it is attached; so the `A()` expression is only legal inside an `attach` expression. 
If the attachment has an initializer, the arguments to that initializer are provided in the creation of the attachment like so:

```cadence
struct S {
    pub let x: String
    init(x: String) {
        self.x = x
    }
}

attachment A for S {
    pub let y: Int 
    init(y:Int) {
        self.y = y
    }
}

let sa = attach A(y: 3) to S(x: "foo")
```

### Removing Attachments from a Type

> Attachments can be removed with a new statement: `remove t from e`. The `t` value here is a type name, rather than a value, 

Reviewer 2: Can a composite type have multiple attachments of the same type?

Author: Ah this is a good point; implicitly it would have to be no since the attachments are reference/looked-up by type.

Reviewer 2: I feel like that is going to be something that people will want.

Author: Hmm, in any situation where someone would want to have two different attachments of type `T` on a resource, they could also make a `TManager` type attachment that contains a `[T]` field, and achieve the same effect with a little indirection.

Reviewer 2: my prediction is that most attachments will probably want to support multiple per resource, and I think it would just be better for the get attachments method to just return an array of attachments of the requested type, even if it is only a one-element array. I think requiring there be a wrapper type around multiple attachments of the same type just makes things more difficult, because then if you want to find a specific attachment for a resource, you can't just request its type any more. you also have to know the type of the wrapper

Author: Hmm, I think I am perhaps not following; can you give me an example of where resources would want to support multiple copies of the same attachment?

Keep in mind that attachments cannot be removed from resources without destroying them; i.e. they are not objects in and of themselves. In this iteration of the proposal, for example, the `Hat` would not be an attachment for the `Kitty` because the `Hat` should be an independently valuable resource that can be bought and sold independently of the `Kitty` itself. Hence, the attachment for `Kitty` would be a `HatManager` that keeps track of all the `Hat`s present on that `Kitty`, while the `Hat`s are just normal resources.

Reviewer 2: okay, that makes more sense
